Table 1: The prompt templates of different modules in ReSP. The input parameters include Overarching question: the inputquestion; Sub-question: the current sub-question generated by the reasoner; Combined memory queues: the concatenated contentof the global evidence memory and local pathway memory queues for each iteration; docs: the documents retrieved from asingle round of retrieval.

Reasoner
    Judge
        Judging based solely on the current known information and without allowing for inference, are you able to completely and accurately respond to the question Overarching question? \nKnown information: Combined memory queues.\nIf you can, please reply with "Yes" directly; if you cannot and need moreinformation, please reply with "No" directly.

    Plan
        You serve as an intelligent assistant, adept at facilitating users through complex, multi-hop reasoning across multiple documents. Please understand theinformation gap between the currently known information and the targetproblem.Your task is to generate one thought in the form of question for nextretrieval step directly. DON’T generate the whole thoughts at once!\n DON’Tgenerate thought which has been retrieved.\n [Known information]: Combinedmemory queues\n[Targetquestion]:Overarching question\n[YouThought]:


Summarizer
    Global Evidence
        Passages: docs\nYour job is to act as aprofessional writer. You will write a good quality passage that can support the given prediction about the question only based on the information in the provided supporting passages. Now, let’s start.After you write, please write [DONE] to indicate you are done. Do not writea prefix (e.g., "Response:") while writing a passage.\nQuestion:Overarchingquestion\nPassage:

    Local Pathway
        Judging based solely on the current known information and without allowing for inference, are you able to respond completely and accurately to thequestion Sub-question? \nKnown information: Combined memory queues.If yes, please reply with "Yes", followed by an accurate response to the questionSub-question, without restating the question; if no, please reply with "No"directly.

Generator 
    Response Generation
    Answer the question based on the given reference.\nOnly give me the answer and do not output any other words.\nThe following are given reference:Combined memory queues\nQuestion: Overarching question

