4 MethodologyFigure 2 illustrates our ReSP framework, which consists of fourcomponents: Reasoner, Retriever, Summarizer, and Generator.Essentially, Reasoner, Summarizer, and Generator are all based ona fine-tuning-free LLM, designed to execute specific tasks usingan array of carefully selected prompt engineering techniques. Forspecific prompttemplates,pleaseseeTable1.Ourmaincontributionlies in the Summarizer, while the design of the other modules issimilar to that of conventional iterative RAG methods.
4.1 Dual-Function SummarizerAs mentioned earlier, our goal is to address issues of context overload and redundant planning. To tackle context overload, a straightforward approach is to employ summarization to compress information. However, even with summarization, the model still lacksan explicit record of the planning path, which does not resolve theissue of redundant planning. During the iterative process, overplanning could arise if summaries overlook information crucial fordirectly addressing the overarching question, or repetitive planningmight occur if the information difference between different roundsof summaries is not significant. Therefore, a more sophisticateddesign of the summarizer is necessary to distinguish the functionsof various pieces of information.Drawing on the idea of query-focused summarization, we havedesigned a dual-function summarizer. Confronted with retrieveddocuments, this summarizer concurrently executes two tasks: producing summaries of supporting information pertinent to the overarching question and generating responses for the current subquestion, while managing two distinct memory queues–the globalevidence memory and the local pathway memory. Summaries related to the overarching question are deposited into the globalevidence memory, serving to explicitly signal the model to ceaseiterations when information is enough, thus mitigating the riskof over-planning. Concurrently, responses for the current subquestion, alongside the sub-question itself, are stored in the localpathway memory. This explicitly guides the model’s recognition of the progress in the question planning path as well as the subquestions that have been historically retrieved, preventing repetitive planning.
4.2 Summary-Enhanced Iterative RAG ProcessHere we delineate the refined iterative RAG workflow that incorporates the dual-function summarizer. The pseudocode for thealgorithm implementation is shown as Algorithm 1.Given a query Q and a document corpus D, we initially deploy aretriever to identify the K documents from D that are most relativeto Q. These documents are then directed into the summarizer forsummary creation and memory queue updates (note that duringthe first iteration, the sub-question is essentially the overarchingquestion, so there is no generation of response for the current subquestion). Subsequently, the contents of the two memory queuesare concatenated to provide context input for the reasoner, whichis responsible for determining whether the current information issufficienttoaddresstheoverarchingquestion.Shoulditbeadequate,the iterative process is halted, and the memory queues are utilizedas context for the generator to produce the final answer. If theinformation is insufficient, the reasoner generates a subsequent subquestion Q* that is distinct from previously retrieved sub-questionsbased on the current context, prompting the next iteration round.
